Retention and Assumptive Questions
Now, increasing your impressions and your click through rate is definitely a fast track to monetization, but it's also not enough. We need to be working on the retention in your videos because you have to hit 4,000 hours of watch time.
Alen Sultanic is a famous copywriter, known for sharing unconventional and effective copywriting and marketing strategies. One of his best secrets to hooking viewers could also help you go viral. It's called assumptive questions. The key here is to put yourself in the viewer's shoes. Anticipate what questions or objections they might have, and then settle those right away. This makes the viewer feel more understood and inclined to hear you out.
For example, in this video I said that I'm not gonna just tell you that you should be passionate about your niche. We're gonna go a bit deeper. A lot of our viewers have by now, heard us say a million times, "Be passionate about your niche," and they want more information on that, so I'm immediately assuming they're going to say," Ugh, I already know this," and I'm trying to quell their fears right out of the gate.
Let's look at this retention graph. The biggest drop off here happens in the first 30 seconds of the video. I bet your videos could look similar to this in some cases, and the goal here is to try and remedy this drop off as much as you can in that first 30 seconds. The less drop off you have here, the longer people will stick through a video. Just a 10 to 20% increase could be the difference between a video that flops and a video that completely explodes.
So your hook should satisfy a viewer's curiosity from their click back on the title and thumbnail, and that should happen (snaps fingers) right away. You could tease some exciting moments coming up later in the content, or you can maybe open a loop by asking a question and promising you're gonna answer it in a little while. And what a lot of small channels don't know is that you can use that script writing technique of opening loops over and over again throughout your entire video to keep people hooked. Close the loop, open another one right away, and then the ending is just as important as the intro to your video.
What you do not want to do is make it feel like your video is ending at any point. It should kind of come as a surprise. The reason we do this is, is so that we can seamlessly transition a viewer from one video to the next video. If you start to do a really long outro and people start to assume your video is ending, they're going to click off way before you get to that part where you're like," Hey, please subscribe," or, "Please watch my next video." It increases your watch time and it creates hopefully, a binge session because people continue to just watch video after video in your channel. This is especially great for new viewers who after a short binge of your channel, will for sure get your next upload in their feed, whether they've subscribed or not. The more times people come back, the faster you get monetized.
